---
layout: post
title: "Glossary"
categories: [log]
tags: [glossary, definitions]
---


##  RS CVn stars

From [@starspot2005]

> RS CVn stars represent a class of close detached binaries with the more massive primary component being a G–K giant or subgiant and the secondary a subgiant or dwarf of spectral classes G to M. They show optical variability (outside eclipses) which is characterised by an amplitude up to 0.6 mag in the V band and interpreted as the rotationally modulated effect of cool spots on their surfaces. Because of low luminosity of the secondary many RS CVn systems appear as single line binaries class which is attractive for spectral analysis. In binaries, where both components can be observed, the primary appears more active than the secondary.

Proposed by [@hall76] with following signatures:

- photometric variability
- Ca II H and K emission lines
- subgiant component well within its Roche lobe
- fast rotation, i.e. almost synchronised binaries with orbital periods of a few days
- orbital period variations

> Thus, similar to other cool active stars, RS CVn-type variables are remarkable due to strong chromospheric plages, coronal X-ray, and microwave emissions, as well as strong flares in the optical, UV, radio, and X-ray. [...] Large amplitude brightness variations of RS CVn stars imply the presence of enormous starspots on their surfaces covering up to 50% of the visible disc [@starspot2005]


About these [@SpectralClassBook]  says:

> fit among the late-type active stars: Their hotter component is F- or G-type and luminosity class V or IV. [...] Often emission of $H\alpha$. There is an over weakening or veiling of lines including the Hydrogen one. not to to an abundance effect but to a non-normal temperature structure in its atmosphere.[...] Ex: determine type from line ratio of temperature-sensitive lines rather than from their absolute strength. 

## G- and K- type stars

From [@SpectralClassBook] page 266 chapter 7,  relevant for the VIMOS wavelength range:

> While early-G stars can be distinguished from late-G and K stars by the increase in absolute strength of the Fe I (8468,8514,8621,8688) and Ti I lines (8435), the disappearance of the Pascen series around G0 means that these hydrogen lines are not useful for ratios. The line Fe I 8621 stays fairly constant in dwarf stars over G-K types, but it is not near other strongly varying lines and so again is of little use. The ratio of Balmer $H\alpha$ with a blend at $\lambda 6497$ makes a good temperature discriminant. 


## Spectra Resources

### Books:
 - [@SpectralClassBook] 


### Papers: 

In [@atlaslow93] they present "We present spectra of O to M stars, luminosity classes V, III, and lb in the wavelength range 5800-8900 A, at approximately 15 A resolution." This is roughly the spectra resolution that I have. 

Other sources are

- [@carquillat97]: This Atlas illustrates the behavior of late type stars (F, G, K and M) in the near infrared 8400− 8800 A region with a resolution of about 2 A

### Webpages:
- http://www.star.ucl.ac.uk/~msw/lines.html


# References
